Okay, to better understand the importance of these headers and threats,
let's put on a hackie hoodie and head over to the basement again.
Now as I mentioned, as a tech lead,
I can't recall the number of times I have reviewed code where
developers simply disabled the default security settings
without understanding the consequences,
like when receiving an error on the form submission due to not
including the cross-site request forgery token.
The developer simply disabled cross-site request forgery protection altogether.
On top of that, for some reason,
they just disabled the default headers as well because that was the
first solution they came across when Googling the error.
Hence, in this demo,
let's see the negative consequence to your users when
incorrectly changing the default security settings.
Let's disable the cross-site request forgery filter,
as well as the header filter.
Spring will now not add these filters to the filter chain.
If you just want to disable default headers and perhaps add your own headers,
you can use the disabled defaults.
Hence, Spring will still include the header filter in the chain,
but with the default headers disabled.
If your user now logs into the site from,
say, a public computer, perhaps they're on holiday using an internet café,
they check their portfolio balance and maybe the account details,
and then log off.
The hacker can then browse the public computer's temporary internet
files and potentially see the user's personal details,
like their email address, their home address,
as caching is not disabled.
This now exposes the user to a targeted cycling attacks.
Noticing that the caching was not disabled on sensitive data,
the hacker suspects that other weaknesses might be likely.
The user receives a promotional email to win free crypto.
With the personal information from the cached pages now make it look more legit.
And who doesn't want free crypto?
If they are logged into the portfolio site and open this link and submit it,
their litecoin position has now been sold.
The user will not be impressed.
So what just happened here?
If we look at the malicious site's source,
it is submitting a form to our portfolio site with
hidden form fields to sell the crypto.
And the browser will simply add the cookie on the way out.
And since the user is logged into the portfolio site and
the request originated from the browser,
the portfolio server simply accepts the request.
The user has just been a victim of cross- site request forgery.
If we re-enable the cross-site request forgery filter and try again,
you can see that we get an error now as the cross-site request forgery token
is missing in the request and Spring Security blocks it.
Now to get around this,
the hacker can send another email apologizing to the user for technical
issues with the promotion and asking them to try a new link.
The page looks similar, but let's take a look at the source.
You can see it's embedding the portfolio site as a frame on top of
the form of the malicious page that submits itself.
Let's change the opacity of the frame to 30% and see what happens.
You can now see the portfolio site in the background.
The hacker can simply align the buttons on the malicious
page over the top of the portfolio site.
Hence,
the user is actually selecting things on the portfolio
site without even knowing about it.
And if we look at the source of the embedded portfolio page,
the cross-site request forgery token is on the form.
So if the user submits this, their litecoin position will now be removed.
The user has just been a victim of a clickjacking attack.
If we re-enable the header filter and try this again,
you can see the browser prevents the malicious site
from embedding our portfolio page.
Now back to the drawing board for the hacker.
This time they register a fake account with the site and submit
the following script to the support page.
Now if an administrator goes and views this support query,
the browser executes the code, which could try to steal the session ID,
the cookie, change page content, or any number of nefarious tasks.
This is a very simple replay cross-site scripting attack.
And it occurred because the content was not encoded.
Now I'm using Thymeleaf,
and I had to specifically use a tag that prevents encoding.
If I flip it back to the correct tag and refresh the page,
you can see the browser will now simply just display
the content without executing it.
Again,
this shows you the importance of using tag libraries and frameworks
like Spring to ensure the content is encoded.
To sum up, use well-established frameworks with large, active communities.
Don't try to reinvent the wheel.
The increased adoption of frameworks, like Spring Security,
has resulted in significant reductions of these types of attacks.
Don't change any of the default setting configuration unless you really
need to and you know the consequences to your users,
as sometimes it might be better to reconsider your approach and change the application instead.